SELECT * FROM tflecommerce.shipment_items;






Let us learn Transaction in Database...
Data Centric Application:

	 Focus is more on Data:

		DDL, DML, SQL
		simple queries, nested queries
		Joins: inner join, left join, right join,
		       self join

		Function: inbuilt functions
			  user defined functions
		Stored Procedures:
				What is stored procedure
				How to write simple stored procedure
				Paramters for stored procedure: IN, OUT
		Data Integrity:
		Transaction:

			is a sequence of one or more SQL Operations , that is to be treated 
			as single unit of work
			
			word:
				commit
				rollback
			
	Transaction:

	 Key properties of transactions are described by  ACID principles:

	A: Atomicity:
		Ensures that all operations within the transaction are completed successfully;
		it not, the transaction is rolled back:

	C: Consistency:
		 Guarantees that a transaction will bring the database from one valid state to another, 
		 maintaining all predefined rules (like constraints and triggers).
		

	I: Isolation
		Ensures that transactions are executed in isolation from one another. 
		The changes made in one transaction are not visible to other transactions 
			until the transaction is committed.


	D: Durability
		Once a transaction has been committed, 
		the changes are permanent, 
		even in the event of a system failure.
		


  Example of Transaction:
		Banking Domain Point of view:
				Funds Transfer ------Transaction:
				Operation:
					A.withdraw amount from one bank account
					B.deposit amount into another bank account

					

		
		ECommerce Domain Point of view:

			Transaction:  Order Placement:
			Operations:
				   When a customer places an order, several steps needed to be performed automatically:

				A.Deduct the inventory  for the pruchased items  (products)
				B.Create an order record in orders table.	 (orders)
				C.Charge the customers payment method.		 (payments)

				START TRANSACTION;

				-- Deduct inventory
				UPDATE products SET stock = stock - 1 WHERE product_id = 123;

				-- Create order
				INSERT INTO orders (user_id, product_id, order_date, status) VALUES (1, 123, NOW(), 'Pending');

				-- Charge payment
				INSERT INTO payments (order_id, amount, payment_date) VALUES (LAST_INSERT_ID(), 50.00, NOW());

				COMMIT;


			Transaction:   Refund Process
			Operations:

				A.Update the order status to "Refunded."  (orders)
				B.Restore the product stock.		(products)
				C.Process the refund payment.		(refunds)


			START TRANSACTION	
				UPDATE orders SET status = 'Refunded' WHERE order_id = 456;
				UPDATE products SET stock = stock + 1 WHERE product_id = (SELECT product_id FROM orders WHERE order_id = 456);
				INSERT INTO refunds (order_id, amount, refund_date) VALUES (456, 50.00, NOW());
			COMMIT;




  Banking Domain Point of view :

	Possible List of Transactions could be identified:

		
		1.Funds Transfer Between Accounts

			A.Deduct the amount from the sender's account.
			B.Add the amount to the receiver's account.


		2. Deposit Funds into an Account
			A.Increase the account balance.
			B.Record the transaction for audit purposes.


		3. Withdrawal from an Account
			A.Check the account balance.
			B.Deduct the amount from the account.
			C.Record the transaction.