In a database context, a transaction is a sequence of one or more operations (like SQL queries) that are executed as a single unit of work. The primary purpose of a transaction is to ensure the integrity of data, especially in cases where multiple operations are performed together, by following the ACID properties.

ACID Properties:
Atomicity:

A transaction is treated as a single "all-or-nothing" unit. This means either all the operations within the transaction are successfully completed, or none of them are. If any part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction is rolled back (undone), and the database returns to its previous state.
Consistency:

The database should move from one consistent state to another consistent state after a transaction. All rules, such as constraints, triggers, etc., must be followed.
Isolation:

Transactions should not affect each other even if they are executed concurrently. One transaction's intermediate results should not be visible to other transactions until it is completed. This ensures data integrity when multiple users are accessing the database at the same time.
Durability:

Once a transaction is committed, the changes made by it should be permanent, even if there is a system crash or failure afterward.
Example of a Transaction in SQL:
Imagine you are transferring money between two bank accounts. Both the debit from one account and the credit to another should succeed together or not at all. This is where transactions come in.

sql
Copy code
START TRANSACTION;

UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance - 100 WHERE account_id = 1; -- debit from account 1
UPDATE accounts SET balance = balance + 100 WHERE account_id = 2; -- credit to account 2

-- If both updates succeed, commit the transaction
COMMIT;

-- If there is an error, roll back to undo both updates
ROLLBACK;
Common Transaction Commands:
START TRANSACTION: Begins a new transaction.
COMMIT: Ends the transaction and saves all the changes made within the transaction.
ROLLBACK: Cancels the transaction and undoes any changes made during it.
Why Use Transactions?
To ensure data integrity when performing multiple related operations.
To provide error recovery by allowing rollback of incomplete transactions.
To manage concurrent access to the database, maintaining isolation between users or processes.




